Below is a cleaned version of the transcript with obvious typos corrected and oral fillers removed. I normalized a few recurring transcription errors based on context:
* “litre/litres” → “leader/leaders” or “opinion leader(s)”
* “cup/cuppa/car part/couples” → kappa
* “gumma/gamma/carma” → gamma
* “historicism/hysterosis” → hysteresis
* “norm murders” → norm emergence
Where the audio seemed genuinely ambiguous, I resolved it using the surrounding discussion.
________________


Edited transcript
Student: Is everything okay if I still haven’t fully understood the experiments?
Advisor: That’s fine.
Student: I’m trying to find a set of parameters that still allows normal norm emergence while also giving higher welfare than the other conditions.
Advisor: Okay.
Student: I still need more time to try more sets of parameters.
Advisor: Then let’s talk about that. What did you do to try to figure out what is going on?
Student: I tried different kappas and several learning rates.
Advisor: So you tried different kappas. Why? What is the reasoning behind varying kappa?
Student: If kappa is too large, then status makes leaders attract more followers. There may be more leaders, and they may not converge.
Advisor: Do we actually see that? If kappa is high, do we see more leaders?
Student: There are two leaders, and they might not converge.
Advisor: Is that expected? Do we want two leaders? We want to find a kappa that can—
No, let me be precise. If kappa is large, do we expect to have two leaders? You said, “Of course that’s going to happen because of this and this.” Why?
Student: Because kappa means the leaders are more likely to have more followers.
Advisor: There is a difference between saying leaders have more followers and saying there are two leaders. The question is: why are there two leaders instead of one leader? Why do you say, “Of course that makes sense”?
Student: I believe both leaders do not want to follow the other leader.
Advisor: That explanation treats them like people. But there is an algorithm. Based on the algorithm, does it make sense that there are two leaders? Or does the algorithm specifically imply there should be only one leader?
Other speaker: I think after the hysteresis fix, I documented in an email that I was able to solve the two-leader problem, at least for the static mode. Eventually we are able to have just one leader. For example, if we have leaders A and B, even if B is not able to follow A directly because B has followers, eventually B’s followers will find that A has a higher reputation, switch, and then B basically has no followers, which means B can follow A eventually.
Advisor: Okay, so what is going on? Do you disagree, Yuchen?
Student: I think that makes sense. Maybe because I committed code later and she didn’t have that.
Advisor: Did you talk with each other?
Student: Yes. She gave me some other advice.
Advisor: Let’s stay with the basic point. You have to ask yourself: should we have two leaders or not? I’m going to be blunt because this is a learning opportunity. I do not want to sugarcoat it.
You said, “Of course there should be two leaders because of this and this.” That is not true. The whole algorithm is designed to have one leader. Earlier you said it made sense to have two leaders. Now you say it should be one leader after the code change. No. Let’s be precise.
There is the algorithm, and there is the implementation of the code. Those are two different things. Is the algorithm designed to have one leader or two leaders? Why?
So why did you say it makes sense that there are two leaders? My point is that you have to understand the algorithm. If you do not understand what the algorithm is trying to do, things will not make sense.
There are two ways to do a project. One is to do something, get the check mark, get the grade, and not learn much. The other is to use it as a learning opportunity. When you see something unexpected—like two leaders when we always talked about one leader—you stop and ask: What is happening? Why is this happening? How do I deal with it?
If you do that, you learn two things: you learn something about the algorithm, and you learn how to solve problems.
Anyway, that is up to you.
So where are we right now? Last week we said that by fixing the hysteresis, experiment B should work, and that if we increase the number of agents to 100, increase the number of states to 10, and use a Gaussian reward distribution, we should still observe convergence behavior with up to n−1 followers. Did that happen?
Student: That happened for the static mode.
Advisor: Fine. But again, in principle: is the full algorithm implemented? What is implemented and what is not implemented? Last time we said that ideally for today the synchronous part would be completely done and debugged. Are we there or not?
Student: We have tests for all the modules, so the program is working. But personally I cannot speak for the status-scaling experiment.
Advisor: That does not tell me enough. Imagine we are in a company. I am the group leader and you are doing the work. I need to know: where are we right now? What is implemented, what is not implemented, what is tested, what is not tested?
Student: I believe the code is implemented.
Advisor: You cannot say “I believe.” You have to say: this is done, this is not done. “I believe” leaves a back door. At some point, you have to take responsibility. If code is going to be released, I do not want to hear “I believe it can be released.” I want to hear, “Yes, I stand behind it because of this, this, and this.”
So where are we? What is done and what is not done?
Student: The code is done except for coverage of the tests, but—
Advisor: “The code is done” still does not tell me much. Imagine I give you a car and say, “The paint is done.” Fine, but is it safe to drive? Is it safe to use the algorithm now because everything important is implemented, or do we still need to check the exhaust and ignition?
Student: We started by having unit tests for all the modules so that each—
Advisor: Again, you are telling me what you did. I want the conclusion. What can we stop worrying about? What still needs to be done? Concretely, for next week: is the synchronous part done so that we can move to the asynchronous part, or is the synchronous part not done? If it is not done, what remains?
Student: Reputation scaling for synchronous is done. Personal utility is done. Status is not done.
Advisor: Good. What needs to be done for status? Does it need a lot of work? How much time does it take?
Student: Maybe about 10 hours to run—
Advisor: I am asking about the work going forward. Is it the whole week or not?
Student: The whole week.
Advisor: Why do you need the whole week?
Student: Because I have no idea what other parameters I should try.
Advisor: So the key problem is not programming? Do you need to change the code?
Student: Only the parameters.
Advisor: So you are saying everything is fine and it is only a parameter problem?
Student: Yes.
Advisor: But you already tried a lot of parameters. Which parameter do you believe is going to save you? Suppose kappa is very large and you get two leaders. Which parameter is going to make it suddenly become one leader?
Student: Maybe the learning rate.
Advisor: Based on what observation?
Student: If it is small, then it will not—
Advisor: Did you actually observe that it is too small or too large, or are you just saying you never looked into it and maybe it is the problem?
Student: I have not looked. I will try a number of learning rates.
Advisor: So your strategy is: spend the whole week trying different learning rates, and maybe it works, maybe it does not?
Student: Also maybe try other parameter changes.
Advisor: Which ones? The whole point is to make a plan for the week. What is your strategy, and why should I believe it will lead to success? Can you say, “In one week it will be done”?
Student: I can try.
Advisor: No. Can you say, “In one week it is going to be done”?
Student: I have not decided which parameters should change.
Advisor: That is exactly the issue. Do you do it systematically? Do you sit down and say: these are the critical parameters, these are the ones where things could go wrong, these are the ones that are not important? What are the critical parameters?
Student: I have no idea at this time.
Advisor: That is useful to admit. But you worked on this problem this week. How did you approach it? Did you approach it systematically? Or did you say: let me try this, let me try that?
My worry is that if you say, “I have no idea which parameter matters,” that tells me it is not being done systematically.
Do you think you have been doing it systematically?
Student: I think I will—
Advisor: No. So far, have you done it systematically?
Student: Sort of, but before I had not realized that other parameters could be changed.
Advisor: When you say “I did it systematically,” what do you mean?
Student: For an experiment, first you can use a toy example to make sure it works, and then scale it up.
Advisor: Did you do the toy examples?
Student: Yes.
Advisor: Did they work?
Student: Yes.
Advisor: So the toy examples worked and you always had one leader. How big were the toy examples?
Student: Still 100 agents, but only 3 states. If we scale up to 10 states, then—
Advisor: So going from 3 to 10 states breaks it. Then how do we proceed systematically?
Student: For 10 states, I just tried kappa.
Advisor: That is not systematic. If someone tells me, “I did it systematically, it did not work, and I tried this,” that sounds ad hoc, not systematic. Systematic means you sit down and ask: what is the expected outcome?
What outcome do you expect?
Student: One leader.
Advisor: You say that now, but 10 minutes ago you said it made sense to have two leaders. If kappa is large, is it more likely to have one leader or less likely?
Student: After the code change, I think—
Advisor: No. This has nothing to do with the code change. Based on the algorithm, if kappa is large, should there be one leader or two leaders?
Do we determine one versus two leaders by gamma or by kappa?
Student: Gamma.
Advisor: Exactly. So why are you focusing on kappa to figure out whether there is one leader or two leaders?
Student: I thought—
Advisor: No. What is kappa about?
Student: The leader is more likely to optimize status.
Advisor: Better. But still not precise. Kappa controls whether the leader maximizes personal utility or status. That is what it is about.
So if you are testing status, what should you test?
Student: Whether the leader is optimizing status.
Advisor: Is that what Alex did?
Student: I looked at his experiments yesterday.
Advisor: Good. What did he show?
Student: He found a kappa that can have norm emergence and also—
Advisor: Say it clearly.
Student: He found a kappa that can have norm emergence.
Advisor: Are you sure that is what he showed? Did he show that if kappa is too small, there is no norm emergence?
Student: I thought so.
Advisor: But is that what Alex actually did?
Student: Let me look again.
Advisor: This is exactly the problem. If you tell me you looked yesterday at Alex’s report, and I ask what he showed, I should be able to trust that answer. But kappa is not the main norm-emergence parameter. Gamma is the one related to leader concentration and norm emergence. If you tell me the wrong thing, then I have a completely wrong understanding of the system.
In this setting, if you say something, you have to take responsibility for it. You cannot just say things and then retract them.
So now: gamma is about whether there is a single leader or not. Kappa is about whether that single leader optimizes personal utility or status. Correct?
Student: Yes.
Advisor: Then 10 minutes ago you said you got two opinion leaders and that it made sense because of kappa. But kappa should have nothing to do with whether there is one or two leaders. Gamma determines that.
This is why I say it is not being done systematically. You need to understand what each parameter is responsible for. Otherwise, when you see something unexpected, you cannot reason about what the issue might be.
Now let me ask you directly: did you do the experiment with gamma = 3 and kappa = 0?
Student: I used gamma = 5.
Advisor: Fine. Gamma = 5 and kappa = 0, for 10 states. Is there a single opinion leader?
Student: Yes.
Advisor: Good. Then when you increase kappa, suddenly there are two opinion leaders. Why?
Student: Maybe—
Advisor: No, I am asking you why. Very basic debugging: if there are two opinion leaders, do they have the same reputation or not? Did you check?
Student: I did not check.
Advisor: There is no way we can make progress like this. That is the very first thing to check. If they do not have the same reputation, what does that mean?
Student: There should only be one leader.
Advisor: Exactly. Which means what?
Student: The code still has a bug.
Advisor: Right. At the very basic level, you have to understand the algorithm.
How long have we been working on this algorithm? Since when did you first see it?
Student: About seven months.
Advisor: Yes. We have talked about this algorithm for months, and very basic things are still unclear.
Student: I think I just ignored—
Advisor: That does not make sense. If you are doing a research project on an algorithm, but you have no interest in understanding the algorithm, that does not make sense. How do you expect to do experiments on an algorithm you do not understand? There was never a point where you said, “I do not understand this.”
We should not be here at this point.
So where are we with the project? Can we still finish it?
Student: In terms of experiments, we still have to work on the status case.
Advisor: Assuming the status test can be done next week, what needs to be done for status?
Other speaker: You can probably just take my code for experiment B, run it, set gamma equal to 3 or 5, and vary kappa.
Advisor: How long is that going to take?
Other speaker: Two to three hours to run it.
Advisor: Does someone need to be actively working for two to three hours?
Other speaker: Setting it up is very quick.
Advisor: Then earlier, when you said you need the whole week, that does not match.
So where could the bug be? What could the issue be here?
Other speaker: The problem last week was that it worked for 3 states and not for 10 states, which led to the hysteresis discussion. But that was fixed.
Advisor: Did you use the fixed code or not?
Student: Yes, I used the fixed version last night.
Advisor: What does “fixed the code” mean? Did you actually change the code, or could we have solved it just by changing a parameter? For example, if the hysteresis threshold for unfollowing is extremely high, would anybody ever unfollow?
Student: No.
Advisor: So could we have handled it by changing a parameter, or was that not enough?
Student: We could have. What I did was add extra conditions so that the lower bound for unfollowing is only active if there is one leader in the community.
Advisor: Fine.
Anyway, can we finish the synchronous part by next week?
Student: Yes.
Advisor: Can we write up all the synchronous experiments, including experiment B and the code?
Student: Yes.
Advisor: Good. But I need the report to actually be there. Back in January, when you drafted the experiment section, did you write actual text for each subsection, explaining what each subsection shows?
Student: No, at first I only had subsection titles.
Advisor: So later you wrote text. What does the text say, for example in the section on the impact of gamma?
Student: If gamma is high, then there should be one leader.
Advisor: And for kappa?
Student: The leadership optimizes—
Advisor: Are you sure that is what the text actually says?
Student: I cannot remember exactly.
Advisor: Then why are you telling me? This is the same issue. You say something that may or may not be true.
Did you write the text or not?
Student: Yes, but I used AI to fix some wording.
Advisor: That is not the issue. Even if AI helped write it, did you read it and check whether it was correct? If the text says gamma is for single-leader emergence and kappa is personal utility versus status, then when you run the experiments you should already know what you are supposed to see.
Research cannot be done by saying: I do not understand the algorithm, I used AI to write things, I do not remember what it said, I am not sure whether it is true, I looked at Alex’s experiments yesterday but I am not sure what he showed.
This report should not be that difficult to write because the plot skeleton is already there. We should be able to produce a report of the experiments.
Student: I can finish the report for B and D next week.
Advisor: Good. Let us do that. But the whole report should be there.
Then there is another week, and we finish the synchronous work. So we use these two weeks to finish the experiments and the code. After that, you document the code so that other people can use it.
For these last two weeks, do things systematically and double-check that what you are saying actually makes sense. If we do that, we should be done. If we do not, then there is no chance.
The basic question is: is there a bug, or is there not a bug? When you say there are two leaders, maybe it is the hysteresis, maybe not. But it clearly shows that something is wrong somewhere: either the algorithm is being interpreted incorrectly, or the code has a bug. It is not just a parameter issue.
In terms of parameters, we know what each one does. So there should be no confusion about which parameter affects which phenomenon.
At this point, if we have a solid understanding of the algorithm, it should be possible to finish.
Now let me ask something specific. I sent you a new version of the algorithm in January, right? Suppose I am an agent with no followers. What is my decision process? Do I decide whether to optimize reputation or personal utility? How exactly?
Student: Currently, as in the paper, if I am not following anyone, then I use a threshold. If the highest reputation I am keeping track of exceeds that threshold, and is also greater than personal utility, then I follow.
Advisor: Good. Now what if I already follow someone? At the next iteration, what do I do?
Student: Then we look at the lower bound.
Advisor: Are you sure? There are two possibilities.
One possibility is: at every iteration I look for the highest-reputation agent, and then I decide based on that agent’s reputation whether I follow or not. In that case I always switch to the highest-reputation agent.
The other possibility is: if I already follow someone, I keep following that same person, and I only stop following if that person’s reputation falls below some threshold. In that case I do not switch to another higher-reputation agent immediately.
Which one is it?
Student: I am not sure.
Advisor: When I read the paper, my impression is the first one: you always look at the highest reputation. If you follow somebody, you should still follow the one with the highest reputation. The hysteresis is only there to decide when you switch from following back to not following anyone. That was my reading.
So if that is true, the two-leader problem should not arise from the algorithm itself. The only way it could happen is if there are truly two agents with exactly the same highest reputation.
Do people update their rates both inside and outside the community?
Student: Yes.
Advisor: Then if two agents temporarily have the same reputation, followers choose randomly, and one of them should eventually gain more rate, break the tie, and become the unique leader.
So double-check this. My feeling is that the algorithm should not produce persistent two-leader behavior if implemented correctly.
Check the paper carefully. Does it really say that at each iteration, if I have no followers, I look for the highest-reputation agent and apply the threshold, and if I already follow someone, I still compare against the current highest reputation? Or does it say I keep following my current person unless that specific reputation falls below the lower threshold?
Student: The intention is that at every iteration, if I do not have any followers, then regardless of whom I followed last iteration, I always check for the agent with the highest reputation and then apply the threshold.
Advisor: Yes. I always want to improve. If somebody has a higher reputation, I would want to follow that person. The threshold is not meant to prevent me from following the highest-reputation person. It is meant to make unfollowing require a bigger drop, to avoid unstable back-and-forth switching.
That is also realistic: once a leader is established, they have to do quite badly before people stop following them.
So double-check both the paper and the code. If the paper is not written clearly enough, the paper must be changed. If the paper is clear, make sure the code reflects it.
Another thing that could be overlooked is chain-following. There are really two issues. First I decide whether to follow, and whom to follow. Then suppose I choose person J. If J already follows somebody else, that following relation should be based on the current iteration, not the previous one.
In the synchronous version, at time ( t ), we should essentially start from a clean slate for the follow graph, use the current reputations, and let agents decide. So if an agent decides to follow J at time ( t ), that decision should be based on the current state at time ( t ), not stale follow relations from time ( t-1 ).
The follow graph at time ( t-1 ) should only affect which threshold I use—whether I was previously following or not—not whom I must continue following.
Does that make sense?
Student: Yes.
Advisor: Good. So please double-check that in both the code and the paper.
Let us do what we can. I think there is a chance the synchronous part can be done by next Friday, and then the asynchronous part after that. In terms of results, the project could then come to a conclusion.
For the rest of the project, there are two things you can focus on. One is the technical side: programming, making the experiments work, doing it systematically. The other is actually understanding what is happening in the social system. Those are the two learning opportunities left in the project.
Those are valuable skills. All right?
Student: Yes.
Advisor: Good.
________________


Summary of the discussion
The advisor’s main concern was not just whether the code runs, but whether the student actually understands the algorithm and can reason systematically about unexpected results. The central issue was the appearance of two leaders in experiments where the underlying algorithm is supposed to converge to one leader. The advisor argued that this should immediately trigger systematic debugging, rather than ad hoc parameter tweaking.
A major conceptual correction in the discussion was the distinction between gamma and kappa:
* Gamma governs whether the system converges to a single leader.
* Kappa governs whether that leader optimizes personal utility or status/social welfare trade-offs.
The advisor pointed out that the student was incorrectly attributing a two-leader outcome to changes in kappa, when that phenomenon should primarily be linked to gamma or to a bug / implementation error, not to kappa itself.
Another major theme was the difference between the algorithm and the implementation. The advisor repeatedly stressed that if the algorithm says there should be one leader, but the code produces two leaders, then either:
1. the algorithm is being misread,
2. the code is wrong,
3. or a specific mechanism like hysteresis or synchronous updating is being implemented incorrectly.
The conversation then turned to the exact logic of the follow/unfollow rule. The advisor’s reading of the paper is that at each iteration an agent should consider the current highest-reputation agent, and hysteresis should only affect whether the agent follows at all, not lock the agent onto an outdated leader. This means persistent two-leader behavior is suspicious and likely indicates a bug or misimplementation.
The advisor also criticized the student’s workflow as not systematic enough. Instead of saying “I tried some parameters,” the student should be able to state clearly:
* what is implemented,
* what remains unfinished,
* what is being tested,
* which parameter controls which phenomenon,
* what the expected result is,
* and why a proposed plan should work.
Finally, the group converged on a short-term plan: finish the synchronous experiments and report first, then move to the asynchronous version, while also documenting the code so others can use it.
________________


TODOs
Technical / debugging
1. Verify whether the two leaders have equal reputation.
   * If not, that strongly suggests a bug, because only the highest-reputation agent should be the leader.
2. Re-read the paper carefully for the follow/unfollow rule.
   * Confirm whether an agent always checks the current highest-reputation agent each iteration.
   * Confirm whether hysteresis only changes the threshold for following/unfollowing, rather than locking the agent to a previously followed leader.
3. Check that the code matches the intended algorithm.
   * Especially the hysteresis logic.
   * Especially the synchronous update logic.
   * Especially whether follow relations at time ( t ) are rebuilt from scratch rather than inherited incorrectly from ( t-1 ).
4. Check the chain-following implementation.
   * Make sure current-iteration follow decisions are based on the current state, not stale follow links.
5. Confirm whether the “hysteresis fix” was a true code fix or just a parameter workaround.
   * Be explicit about what was changed.
Experimental work
6. Run the synchronous status experiments systematically.
   * Use the working experiment-B setup.
   * Fix gamma at an appropriate value (for example 3 or 5, depending on the design).
   * Sweep across kappa values.
7. Separate the roles of parameters clearly in experiments.
   * Use gamma for testing leader concentration / single-leader emergence.
   * Use kappa for testing status vs personal-utility optimization.
8. Replicate or carefully compare against Alex’s reported experiments.
   * Do not rely on memory.
   * Check exactly what Alex showed.
Reporting / project management
9. Produce a concrete status report of the synchronous part.
   * What is implemented
   * What is tested
   * What is unfinished
   * What is blocked
10. Finish the synchronous experiment write-up next week.
* Include actual explanatory text, not just subsection titles.
* Make sure the text correctly states what gamma and kappa do.
11. Finish report sections for experiments B and D.
12. After synchronous is complete, move on to asynchronous experiments.
13. Document the final codebase so others can use it.
Process / working style
14. Work more systematically.
* Before changing parameters, state what each parameter is supposed to do.
* State the expected outcome before running the experiment.
* When results differ from expectations, diagnose them against the algorithm.
15. Take responsibility for claims.
* Do not say “I think Alex showed X” unless you have checked.
* Do not say “I believe the code is done”; say exactly what is done.
________________


I can also turn this into a cleaner meeting notes format with sections like Decisions / Issues / Action items / Risks if you want.